#AppMetrics Vision

AppMetrics is a metric collection and analysis toolkit for 
building software using validated learning techniques
promoted in "The Lean Startup" by Eric Reis.

Software features are built to provide value to the users of that
software.  Rather than asking users to guess what these features should
be; the validated learning "Build, Measure, Learn" cycle advocates
rapid A/B testing of feature variations, and keeping those variations
that positively impact the desired value metrics.

The AppMetrics toolkit is comprised of 3 functional areas:

1. In app metric "action" logging libraries - libraries for various UI
   technologies that facilitate logging of user actions back to a
central collection hub.
1. Metrics collection service - a high performance web service that
   collects & stores the actions logged by (1)
1. Metric analysis toolkit - a report building toolkit for producing
   simple one page metrics analysis reports

##Action logging libraries

##Metrics collection service

##Metrics analyis toolkit


#Examples

##Application form birth date vs age

###Hypothesis: 
Asking for birth date rather than current age on the application form results in higher rates of form completion.

###Test: 
When the application form loads, it sends an HTTP request to the MC to determine which of the 2 options to display.  The user is presented with an application form that either asks for birth date, or current age.  The application form reports back to the MC (via HTTP) which actions were taken.
The MC records these actions as part of a session; and creates a set of aggregate session action reports at regular intervals.
The people running the beta test are able to log into their beta test website, and from there access those action reports.  They apply a set of standard statistical tests to the data to evaluate the hypothesis (see http://blog.asmartbear.com/easy-statistics-for-adwords-ab-testing-and-hamsters.html for an example of data that looks meaningful, but isn’t statistically significant).  They also export some of the data to Excel for further processing.


##Excel price latency

###Hypothesis: 
On average prices are displayed in an Excel cell 1 second after they are generated by the price engine.

###Test: During execution of the Excel addin, the price TickDate is compared to the time the price is written to a cell.  Periodically the min, max and avg price latency for each market if reported back to the MC via HTTP.
The MC creates aggregate reports, which are accessed by the beta test runners via their beta test website.  They apply a set of statistical tests to the aggregate reports to determine the average price latency.  They can download the raw data for further analysis and presentation in Excel.


